- [Instructor] Let us now understand protocol buffers,
which is the second most important foundation block
in the gRPC framework.
Let's say you have an object called employee.
It has three fields: an ID, a name and a designation,
and you want to transport this employee object
over a network.
What are your options?
Serialization?
But that leads to performance and memory issues.
You can also use XML, but XML is strict to deal with.
It is difficult to navigate an XML
and the XML payload transmitted
between client and server is very heavy,
which eventually leads to performance problems again.
Protocol buffers is a project owned by Google,
and this provides you a way to serialize structured data
more efficiently.
They are platform and language neutral,
so you really don't have to bother
on what language are you trying
to implement your service.
Protocol buffers is used
as the interface definition language,
or as we say, IDL, in the gRPC framework
to write your service contract.
If you have worked with SOAP based web services earlier
you would know what an IDL is.
An IDL is an interface definition language
which is used to write a service contract.
In SOAP based web services,
we used WSDL, or WSDL, to define a service.
Protocol buffers are more commonly known as protobufs.
And please note that they are not the only way
to define your service in gRPC.
You can also use other formats like JSON,
but Google promotes this as a standard.
Once the service definition has been completed
using protocol buffers,
then you can generate stubs out of that service definition.
These stubs can be generated
in a language which is available in the list
of supported languages by the protocol buffers project.
Those languages have been listed on the slide.